I put a thick coil pin on this big wave
gun and a thick pin works really good
with this design with all the concave in
the tail and thick fins have a history
on big wave guns dating back to the 50s
and into the 70s so that's what I chose
to put on this board
I started by making a thin panel with
ten layers of eight ounce Bowl an and
amber resin I'll be sandwiching this
between two pieces of Redwood and it'll
make a one-inch thick thin blank I
consider this the prime cut of this
beautiful quarter saw in redwood that I
have I've had it for years and I'll use
those other scraps on other projects but
for this one it's a single piece
so I make the sandwich and then I cut it
out and then after I tuned it up we have
a one-inch thick thin blank
that has to be tapered oil when the fin
gets boiled is going to require a lot of
tapering so I made this tapering jig and
what it is is it's a sled that goes
through a surface sander and does the
bulk of the work with a really great
precision so it really did work out
knives
here's another look at that sled it's a
really simple when the fins done it will
be just under one inch at the base and
about a quarter inch little over a
quarter inch at the tip if if in were
made of solid glass it way a lot more
that glass in the center of the panel is
nice of sand too but also the function
of it is to have a place for the glass
to die into when you glass it in this
case it's not meant to look like a bead
but more like a thick pin line with this
the strength advantages you always want
to seal redwood before your glass it
because it can Lyster the temporary base
you see here really makes life simple
then I cut the fin off of that and I
seal the base attack the fin of the
board and when sighting is nice to pull
down the cloth behind it to take all the
distractions out of you this quick grip
works great for breaking over the robing
I used to use a nail but it this tears
it up a lot less and it's something I
always have around and getting that
robing groomed really nice really helps
when you're getting the bubbles out and
shaping the fill it then after hot
coating you sand the board and I always
start with the fin and get it tuned up
first
back here with a concave and the bevels
are I'll start with the machine but then
I do a lot of hand sanding at the end
for the final touch your hands work
great
so there's an 11-4 situ gun with a thick
coil fin and it's ready for resin panels
and gloss and polish